# NewtonFractal
A project designed to create fractals using newton's method!
This code developed in an independent study in my undergrad with numerical analysis/senior seminar. The first version of the code was in Mathematica in what was probably the least efficient method one could ever design this code.
When saying "Newton's method", we are referring to a method inspired by Isaac Newton to approximate the zeroes of a function. The algorithm is as follows:
Start with your function f(x) and an initial guess for the zero, x_0.
Then, x_n=x_{n-1}-(f(x_{n-1})/f'(x_{n-1})).
Most of the time, for "nice" functions, this converges to zeroes incredibly quickly, making for a wonderful method of approximating when you're okay with it sometimes not working and how well it works being a deep and complicated enough question that it has fueled the direction of various fields of math.
Now, fractals are a very cool and new part of mathematics. Technically, fractals are kind of a normal age for a modern math idea, with the Weierstrass function from 1872 being self similar (and such a new approach to functions that other mathematicians at the time refused to accept its validity as a counter-example to a commonly held belief). However, when I say fractal, you don't think of graphs, you think of the wonderful pretty pictures that look like star trek's version of an abicus. The modern concept of fractal images weren't invented until computers were able to generate images. This history is cool enough that I will end my rant and leave it to the reader to find the rest of this out.
So, the matter at hand is how in the world are we getting a fractal out of the basic idea already mentioned. To do so, we go to the complex plane. First, pick a function whose zeroes you already know and assign each zero a color. Now, pick a number of pixels for the image you want, and put that image somewhere on the complex plane. Next, in the center of each pixel there is a complex number. Run that number through Newton's method some set number of times, 16 is nice, and make that number's pixel the color of whatever zero you are closest to (you will likely only be "close" to one, unless you picked a crazy function). If the number happened to spiral out and not approach any zero, then give it a color for that.
It turns out, most of the time (maybe always and I'm just an imperfect coder) this will generate a fractal image!
Wild!
Anyways, so the code here was originally running serial, but I had enough experience with parallel code that I changed it to that. I then learned how to do CUDA code and that's where we are currently!

I am pretty sure that the explanation behind the functions that will/wont make fractals relates to chaos theory. A system is chaotic if it meets a few basic consitions, with the only one I'm questioning how to prove is "topological mixing". But I think the trick to whether or not a fractal will be generated is whether or not the function in the step of the algorithm g(x)=x-[f(x)/f'(x)] is continuous on the Riemann sphere, but this is just my hunch and I have not truly investigated this at all.
